Well come back.
And in this lesson we're going to look at some array properties.
So earlier we saw that we can list an array here within our cons. And we've got all of the items listed
with their index values.
And then we've got this property here at the end called length.
So if we actually specify length we get the value of 4.
So you can actually pull back this information of length and use it within our code.
So notice as well that within the prompt I have a length of 1 to 4.
So I can do this a little bit smarter as well where I can make it dynamic and I can use the value of
TASC length directly within that prompt.
So now if I go back here and if I refresh if it still says 4 but if I go ahead and if I update that
array.
So if I go ahead and if I add in another item in the array sleep and I go back out here and if I refresh
it that value actually dynamically updated.
Because this isn't a static value it's a dynamic value.
And this is one of the things when you are programming you try to make your applications as dynamic
as possible.
So basically that means that we're not setting static values.
And as we change we're expecting our values or length of our arrays to change.
We're expecting new items to be added in and we're also expecting maybe the task lists are going to
be indifferent.
You might have more tasks you might have less tasks and so depending on the person we need to have this
ability to pick up that dynamic value.
So this always reflects the number of elements in the array.
And basically it's the length of the array minus one.
So it returns all the number of elements in the array.
And in order to get the last item in the array then we need to minus one off of the length.
And that's so we can always automatically pick up the last item in the array.
So for this instance I'm going to just comment to some of this code that we've written here and I'm
going to update this.
To say that we're going to show the last item within that array.
So what I want you to do now is to pause the video.
Open up your console or open up your editor and I want you to select the last item in this array using
the task the array length property.
So try and just print that into your console and see if you can get that to produce the value of sleep
within the console without actually writing sleep on the console.
So pause the video try it out and I can assure you the solution coming up.
So you had the opportunity to try that out.
So I got a refreshed this page and I do need to save this first.
And we're just refreshed now.
So we don't have those props coming up anymore.
And what we want to do is in the console we want to display sleep without actually writing sleep and
we don't actually know how many items are in this array.
So obviously we could count them but let's make this dynamic.
So first of all let's use console log because we know we need to put that information in the console.
So that's the first step.
The next step is to select the task array.
So when we know we need to output a value from the task array and now we need to determine what the
index value is of the last item and we know that we have a value that we saw earlier where we can do
task length.
But we know that this length is going to be the actual count of the items in the array and it's going
to be higher than the last item.
So we know that if we subtract 1 then technically we should have the last item from the array.
So let's try the saved go back quote refreshed and indeed we do get sleep.
So this gives us the ability to select the last item if we want to select the second last item and this
can get a little bit risky because if we only have one item in there then it's not going to work.
But because we've got more than this amount of items in the array we can still get that second last
item got got to work should be going to work.
Let me update that.
So this is the way that we can use length and dynamically pullback values.
There's another thing within our arrays that I want to mention.
So we saw earlier how we can update items within the array and all we need to do is specify the index
value.
And we saw that we could do something like task and we can specify if we wanted to update index number
three we could do something like this and we could equal it to new value and this would update that
third item third index item within that race that would be got to work or go to work.
And we see that when we pulled up back there and we see that now we're able to update that new volume.
So one of the other things that we can do for arrays is we can specify that the index.
So we can pick a really high index we can do something like 100.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
And I'm just going to set that to be a negative one so that you can see how this dynamic equation calculates
to still get that last value.
So now let's try this out.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
Do you think that it's going to add in a bunch of blank items into the array going all the way up to
100.
Because we know that this is zero.
This one is one that's two that's three and this is four.
But what are we going to do with 100.
So let me show you.
And also I want to console log.
OK.
All of that entire array so that this will give you a better illustration of actually what's happening
behind the scenes.
So it's like that would go back here refreshed the page and we see that now we actually have a length
of a hundred in one because we actually add it in 95 undefined values that are available within the
array.
So if we were to actually pull back tasks and we wanted to see task 44 it's undefined.
We can go in there and we can define cost 44 and we can equal it to new or whatever we want to call
it.
And now list that array.
Again I've got thirty nine undefined before I've got that.
The value of new.
And then I've got another fifty five undefined.
And then I've got that new value at the end.
So this is an important thing to know that when you do dynamically assigned an index value and you're
just picking it out of it not relevant to how many items are already in that particular that particular
array then you're going to end up with this where you've got a bunch of undefined essentially placeholders
that get added in to that array.
And these are all items so the length of the array reflects the last index value that we've set within
the array.
So now I want you to pause the video and I've got another task for you.
And in this one what I want you to do is to add a new item.
Just beside.
Sleep here.
So we're going to add a new item within our task array and place that besides sleep.
So not overwriting any of the ones in there and do it dynamically again using the Task length because
we don't want to in case our array changes we've got new items coming in there.
We can't be sure which the last index value is going to be.
So let's just out at the end of task.
So Plus the video and I want you to write that out and set a value here that says watch TV and I'm going
to show you the solution coming up.
So we had the opportunity to try to say within the editor and let me show you what the solution is and
the solution to this is actually going to be really simple and straightforward.
I can simply do task length because we know that the task length is going to be all the items in there.
So basically this is going to be the next available item within the array.
And we did say that we want to change this to watch TV.
So let's see how this turns out.
So let's go and refreshed and indeed we were able to add in a fifth item in there just by using the
Task length.
And I'll just show you how this works as well.
So if I wanted to add in even more items I can do task length again and I can be called a next item
or something like that.
And then if I listo that array we can see that we're able to add in another item at the end of the array.
Now there is a better way to work with your arrays.
I reuse have builtin methods and I'm going to be showing you how to use those in the upcoming lessons.